# Deepan-MSCodeFunDo2018
New Repository for the MS CodeFunDo 2018
My idea is to employ Fractal Mathematics, Machine Learning and Data Science techniques and Big Data analysis to predict natural disasters.
Fractal mathematics is basically the branch of mathematics concerning repeating patterns leading to a mathematical set of almost infintely recurring self-similar patterns. The motivation behind adopting this approach is that it occurs almost everywhere and very randomly in nature to the level that it can almost be considered ubiquitous in nature. Research already exists in the domain for such an approach towards natural disaster prediction. Dr. Christopher Barton, Research Geologist, United States Geological Survey is a leading researcher using this approach. Benoit Mandelbrot, Professor of Mathematical Sciences at Yale University who is considered to be the Father of Fractals has been using Fractals to find order within complex systems in nature such as natural shape of a coastline.
It not only appears in biological, geographic or topographical domains but also in Natural phenomenon such as weather and sociological evolution. The natural phenomenon weather being the keyword here, it can thus be used to predict natural disasters.
It is evident that certain changes occur in weather conditions before a natural disaster occurs. Since Fractal mathematics essentially is patterns speaking in a very uncomplicated manner of terms, Big Data analysis and Machine Learning techniques such as Deep Learning can be used for analysis of these factors to find a recurring pattern using past weather data such as temperature, humidity, wind speed, cloud cover, ocean currents, wind currents before such an occurence, solar and lunar cycles before and during the occurence keeping other factors such as geographic location, topographic changes, forest cover changes in mind. Another factor that can be used are observing seasonal animal migration patterns. Anomalies in these patterns also can be indicative impending weather changes leading to unfortunate natural disasters.
Also all the sensor data from the sensors already deployed in regions of interest such as ocean beds, volcanic crusts and known fault lines, etc. for collecting relevant data will be integrated as a predicting factor.
Big Data to handle the vast amount of data and Data Science techniques to detect patterns and Machine learning techniques to predict occurences using the patterns.
